# Stateful & Stateless Widgets

## Reactive State Management

### Imperative State Management

In the code below we are creating a square using `createSquare` function and passing the color of the square we want to create.
Now with **Imperative** approach we will mutate the state over the time.
So we going to keep our square, but going to change its internal state by changing its color.
**Note**: By applying **Imperative State Management**, we have **tightly bound** the UI, the square we are talking about with its internal state, the color we are seeing.

``` Dart
mySquare = createSquare(color.blue);
mySquare.setColor(color.orange)
```

But when we have larger application and especially we start talking asynchronous scenarios, it can be very difficult to synchronize the internal state of our user interface objects with the overall state of the application. This often leads to very strange user experiences, such as counters in multiple places in your UI that should show the same number, but they don't.

### Declarative or Reactive State Management

In this case we create a state object. This doesn't have any visual representation. It ust going to represent the state of something in our application.
Then We are going to initialize that state to the color blue.
Then we are going to create a square, passing in the state
Now the state of our application is separated from the UI itself.
If we want to change the color, we are going to change that state object
But to regenerate the UI, we are just going to create a new square again, passing again the updated state.
**Note** : This approach will provides a clean separation of the state of our application from the user interface of our application. This will *optimize* the **rendering** of our application.
With the techniques that we have with **Declarative** or **Reactive** state management, we can gather up all the changes of state of our application at one time and the fire one rendering cycle that's going to reflect all the changes that have happened between the last rendering cycle and the current one.

``` Dart
state = new State(Colors.Blue);
createSquare(state);
state.setColor(Colors.Orange);
createSquare(state);
```

### Imperative vs Declarative State

| Imperative                            | Declarative                       |
| :------:                              | :------:                          |
| Decentralized State                   | Centralized State                 |
| Synchronization can be challenging    | No synchronization required       |
| Output influenced by environment      | Constant output for given input   |
| Minimal rendering overheads           | Minimal rendering overheads       |
